Documentation: Rework Query Type page (#1599)
blacksmithgu/obsidian-dataview: docs/docs/queries/query-types.md

# Query Types

The **Query Type** determines how the output of your dataview query looks like. It is the **first and only mandatory** specification you give to a dataview query. There are four available: `LIST`, `TABLE`, `TASK` and `CALENDAR`.

The Query Type also determine on which **information level** a query is executed.  `LIST`, `TABLE` and `CALENDAR` operate on **page level**, whereas `TASK` queries operate on `file.tasks` level. More on that on the `TASK` Query Type. 

You can combine **every Query Type with all available [Data Commands](data-commands.md)** to refine your result set. Read more about the interconnection between Query Types and Data Commands on [How to Use Dataview](../index.md#how-to-use-dataview) and the [structure page](structure.md).

!!! summary "Query Type"
    The Query Type determines the output format of a query. It's the only mandatory information for a query.

## LIST

> `LIST` queries output a bullet point list consisting out of your file links or the group name, if you decided to [group](data-commands.md#group-by). You can specify up to **one additional information** to output alongside with your file or group information.

Author: I did not want to write additional field because that's only half the story; you can output a literal (with little sense) or a calculation, too, that perhaps contains multiple field values, so "one additional field" isn't sufficient.

> `LIST` queries output a bullet point list consisting out of your file links or the group name, if you decided to [group](data-commands.md#group-by). You can specify up to **one additional information** to output alongside with your file or group information.

Reviewer: Let's merge as is and think about it later.

    - [Pillars of Eternity 2](#)
- knowledge:
    - [Git Basics](#)
- moc:
    - [Dashboard](#)
- recipe:
    - [Classic Cheesecake](#)
- summary:
    - [How to fix Git Cheatsheet](#)

### LIST WITHOUT ID

If you don't want the file name or group key included in the list view, you can use `LIST WITHOUT ID`. `LIST WITHOUT ID` works the same as `LIST`, but it does not output the file link or group name if you add an additional information. 

~~~
```dataview
LIST WITHOUT ID
```
~~~

**Output**

- [Classic Cheesecake](#)
- [Git Basics](#)
- [How to fix Git Cheatsheet](#)
- [League of Legends](#)
- [Pillars of Eternity 2](#)
- [Stardew Valley](#)
- [Dashboard](#)

It's the same as `LIST`, because it does not contain an additional information!

~~~
```dataview
LIST WITHOUT ID type
```
~~~

**Output**

- moc
- recipe
- summary
- knowledge
- game
- game
- game

`LIST WITHOUT ID` can be handy if you want to output computed values, for example.

~~~
```dataview
LIST WITHOUT ID length(rows) + " pages of type " + key
GROUP BY type
```
~~~

**Output**

- 3 pages of type game
- 1 pages of type knowledge
- 1 pages of type moc
- 1 pages of type recipe
- 1 pages of type summary

## TABLE

> The `TABLE` query types outputs page data as a tabular view. You can add zero to multiple meta data fields to your `TABLE` query by adding them as a **comma separated list**. You can not only use plain meta data fields as columns, but specify **calculations** as well. Optionally, you can specify a **table header** via the `AS <header>` syntax. Like all other query types, you can refine your result set for your query with [data commands](data-commands.md).

Author: Well, it's the summary. I go into detail for each of this point in the upcoming sections. I'm not a fan of bullet points - I used the bold formatting to highlight the different aspects already.

~~~
```dataview
TASK
WHERE !completed AND contains(tags, "#shopping")
```
~~~

**Output**

- [ ] Buy new shoes #shopping
- [ ] Get new pillows for mom #shopping

A common use case for tasks is to **group tasks by their originating file**:

~~~
```dataview
TASK
WHERE !completed
GROUP BY file.link
```
~~~

**Output**

[2022-07-30](#) (1)

- [ ] Finish the math assignment
    - [ ] Read again through chapter 3 [due:: 2022-09-01]
    - [ ] Write a summary of chapter 1-4 [due:: 2022-09-12]

[2022-09-21](#) (2)

- [ ] Buy new shoes #shopping
- [ ] Mail Paul about training schedule

[2022-09-27](#) (1)

- [ ] Get new pillows for mom #shopping

!!! hint "Counting tasks with subtask"
    Noticing the (1) on the header of `2022-07-30`? Child tasks belong to their parent task and are not counted separately. Also, they do **behave differently** on filtering.

### Child Tasks

A task is considered **child task** if it is **intended by a tab** and below a not indented task list item.

- [ ] clean up the house
	- [ ] kitchen
	- [x] living room
	- [ ] Bedroom [urgent:: true]

!!! info "Childs of a bullet point item"

>     While intended tasks under a bullet point item are strictly speaking also children task, dataview will handle them like normal tasks in most cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    While indented tasks under a bulleted list item are, strictly speaking, also child tasks, Dataview will handle them like normal tasks in most cases.
```

Child Tasks **belong to their parent**. This means if you're querying for tasks, you'll get child tasks as part of their parent back.

~~~
```dataview
TASK
```
~~~

**Output**

- [ ] clean up the house
	- [ ] kitchen
	- [x] living room
	- [ ] Bedroom [urgent:: true]
- [ ] Call the insurance about the car
- [x] Find out the transaction number

> This especially means that child task will be part of your result set **as long as the parent matches the query** - even if the child task itself doesn't.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This specifically means that child task will be part of your result set **as long as the parent matches the query** - even if the child task itself doesn't.
```

~~~
```dataview
TASK
WHERE !completed
```
~~~

**Output**

> 

Reviewer: Should we add a one-liner here saying "Note how `living room` task shows up in the result even though it's complete."?
